            HTML/XHTML Editing Macros: Frequently Asked Questions


Index:

 1. How do I disable the tab mapping?
 2. How do I prevent the plugin from overriding mappings I have defined?
 3. How do I disable any mapping?
 4. How do I make the mappings insert lowercase tags instead of uppercase?
 5. How do I make the mappings insert XHTML tags?
 6. How do I change the map leader from ; or the character entities map leader
    from & to something else?
 7. How do I keep the mappings from interfering when I edit CSS, JavaScript,
    PHP, etc?
 8. I installed the vimball archive under windows and the toolbar icons do not
    display properly.
 9. Is there an HTML/XHTML strict mode for the mappings?

                   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━


1. How do I disable the tab mapping?

You can disable the default tab mapping by putting ":let g:no_html_tab_mapping
= 'yes'" in your vimrc.

This will change the default tab mapping to <lead>tab (;tab) instead.

More information:

  • :help g:no_html_tab_mapping
  • :help html-tab
  • :help g:html_map_leader


2. How do I prevent the plugin from overriding mappings I have defined?

You can prevent the plugin from overriding a mapping you have defined
elsewhere—such as in your ~/.vimrc—by putting ":let g:no_html_map_override =
'yes'" in your vimrc.

More information:

  • :help g:no_html_map_override


3. How do I disable any mapping?

You can disable any mapping that the plugin defines by putting a pattern that
will match it in "g:no_html_maps", which is a regular expression. For example,
to disable the ;ah and ;im mappings for all modes, put ":let g:no_html_maps =
'^\(;ah\|;im\)$'" in your vimrc.

Mappings that match this pattern will be suppressed regardless of the mode the
mapping is for, and the pattern will not undergo g:html_map_leader and
g:html_map_entity_leader substitution.

More information:

  • :help g:no_html_maps


4. How do I make the mappings insert lowercase tags instead of uppercase?

You can make the output of the mappings lowercase by putting ":let
g:html_tag_case = 'lowercase'" in your vimrc.

More information:

  • :help g:html_tag_case
  • :help g:html_tag_case_autodetect


5. How do I make the mappings insert XHTML tags?

You can make the mappings output transitional XHTML by putting ":let
g:do_xhtml_mappings = 'yes'" in your vimrc.

More information:

  • :help g:do_xhtml_mappings


6. How do I change the map leader from ; or the character entities map leader
from & to something else?

You can change the default leader from ";" to something else—"_" for
example—by putting ":let g:html_map_leader = '_'" in your vimrc.

You may also change the leader for the &-mappings by putting something like
":let g:html_map_entities_leader = '\'" in your vimrc.

More information:

  • :help g:html_map_leader
  • :help g:html_map_entities_leader
  • :help html-tags
  • :help character-entities


7. How do I keep the mappings from interfering when I edit CSS, JavaScript,
PHP, etc?

You can temporarily turn off all the mappings for the current buffer by typing
":HTMLmappings disable" within Vim. You can re-enable them with ":HTMLmappings
enable".

You can shorten the command to just ":HTML" and the arguments "off" and "on"
are valid.

More information:

  • :help :HTMLmappings


8. I installed the vimball archive under windows and the toolbar icons do not
display properly.

If you are on a Windows based system, the provided toolbar icons in BMP form
will not be usable from the VBA files. This is due to a bug in Vimball that
will hopefully be fixed in the future. In the meantime, either use the ZIP
archive or manually extract the pixmaps ZIP file in your bitmaps directory
after installing the Vimball.

[The BMP files are no longer included in the Vimball by default.]


9. Is there an HTML/XHTML strict mode for the mappings?

No, because it is assumed that when an author wants strict (X)HTML he will not
use the mappings that output transitional tags.

The only concession to strict mode is the ";s4" mapping.

More information:

  • :help n_;s4
  • :help n_;4

